.TH ARRTOP 1 "2026" "arrtop" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
arrtop \- top-style terminal UI for the Sonarr/Radarr download \(-> import queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arrtop
.RB [ \-c | \-\-config
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-1 | \-\-once ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-version ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B arrtop
is a top-like, full-screen terminal view of the Sonarr/Radarr
download-and-import pipeline. It polls the configured *arr queues on the
.B refresh
interval, sorts the queue so what is actively importing floats to the top, and
draws real progress bars for both the download and the import phase.
.PP
Its differentiator is the import (copy) progress: the *arr API does not expose
how far along an import copy is, so
.B arrtop
reads the growing destination file directly on disk and reports the copy
percentage in real time.
.PP
Because only the kernel of the host writing the file reports its size as it
grows,
.B arrtop
must run
.B on the *arr host
for the import bar to work. Run off-host, downloads and queue state still
display, but the import percentage shows as
.RB \(lq \(em \(rq
for copies it cannot watch.
.PP
With a terminal on stdout,
.B arrtop
runs the live view and redraws on the
.B refresh
interval (default 2s) or the instant you press a key; press
.B q
(or Ctrl-C) to quit, and the view resizes with the terminal. When stdout is
piped or redirected, or with
.BR \-\-once ,
it prints a single plain-text snapshot instead.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIpath\fR
Path to the config file (YAML or JSON). Takes precedence over
.B ARR_TOP_CONFIG
and the default search.
.TP
.BR \-1 ", " \-\-once
Print a one-shot plain-text snapshot of the queue and exit; do not start the
live view.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a usage summary and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show the version and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The config file is YAML or JSON. It defines a list of
.B backends
under a
.B backends
key; each entry needs a non-blank
.BR name ", " url ", " api_key ,
and a
.B type
of
.B sonarr
or
.BR radarr .
An optional top-level
.B refresh
sets how often the live view redraws and accepts
.IR <int>s ", " <int>ms ,
or a bare integer (seconds). The file extension picks the parser:
.IR .yaml / .yml
parse as YAML,
.I .json
as JSON, anything else tries YAML then JSON. See the packaged example config at
.IR /etc/arr_top/config.yaml.example .
.PP
The config path is resolved in this order:
.IP 1. 4
.BR \-c / \-\-config " " \fIpath\fR
.IP 2. 4
the
.B ARR_TOP_CONFIG
environment variable
.IP 3. 4
the first of
.IR ./config.yaml ", " ./config.yml ", " ./config.json
that exists
.IP 4. 4
the first of
.IR /etc/arr_top/config.yaml ", " /etc/arr_top/config.yml ", " /etc/arr_top/config.json
that exists
.PP
A local
.I ./config.*
therefore overrides a system-wide one. If none resolves,
.B arrtop
prints an error and exits non-zero.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ./config.yaml\fR, \fP./config.yml\fR, \fP./config.json
Per-directory config searched first (current working directory).
.TP
.I /etc/arr_top/config.yaml\fR, \fP/etc/arr_top/config.yml\fR, \fP/etc/arr_top/config.json
System-wide config searched after the current-directory defaults.
.TP
.I /etc/arr_top/config.yaml.example
Example config installed by the
.BR .deb / .rpm
packages. Copy it to
.I /etc/arr_top/config.yaml
(dropping the
.IR .example )
to use the system-wide location. Config may also be written in JSON; only the
YAML example is shipped.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ARR_TOP_CONFIG
Path to the config file, consulted after
.BR \-c / \-\-config
but before the default search.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set, disables the color theme; output is rendered without ANSI color. Color
is also off automatically when stdout is not a terminal.
.SH AUTHOR
Matthew J. Black <mjblack@gmail.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/mjblack/arr_top/issues>.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project homepage: <https://github.com/mjblack/arr_top>
